p-95
-- Timeline Note
p-1
-- The Short Version
p-40
-- Act 1: The Scrub
p-3
p-4
p-5
-- For beginners: git history rewriting
p-89
p-6
p-90
p-8
p-9
p-10
-- Act 2: Building the Stage
p-11
p-12
p-13
p-14
-- The Foundation
p-15
p-16
-- For beginners: Atkinson Hyperlegible
p-47
p-17
-- What Got Forgotten
p-18
p-19
p-20
p-21
p-22
-- Act 3: The Light That Wasn't
p-23
p-24
p-25
-- How Do You Break an Entire Theme?
p-26
p-27
-- code block: the custom-variant declaration
--The declaration reads: at-custom-variant light, targeting elements that carry the light class, or are children of an element with the light class.
p-28
p-29
-- Warning: the silent no-op
--This is a category of bug that's particularly nasty: the silent no-op. Nothing fails. Nothing logs an error. The code looks correct when you read it. The classes are right there in the markup. They just don't do anything. And if you only test in dark mode, which is the default, and which worked perfectly, you'd never know.
-- "It's Fixed"
p-30
p-31
p-32
p-33
p-34
p-35
p-36
p-37
-- Twenty-Seven Failures
p-38
p-39
--Twenty-seven failures.
p-41
-- For beginners: contrast ratios
--For beginners: contrast ratio measures how easy it is to distinguish text from its background. A ratio of } to } means the text and background are the same color, completely invisible. A ratio of } to } is black on white, maximum contrast. WCAG }.} AA requires at least }.} to } for normal-sized text. If your light gray text on a white background has a ratio of }.} to }, nearly one in five people will struggle to read it, and for someone with low vision, it might as well not be there.
p-42
p-43
-- The Pattern
p-44
p-45
p-46
--That's the title of this entry. It earned it.
-- Act 4: Giving the Story a Voice
p-48
p-49
p-50
-- The New Hire
p-51
p-52
-- The Pipeline
p-53
p-54
p-55
p-56
p-57
p-58
p-59
p-60
p-61
p-62
p-63
-- The Wall
p-64
p-65
p-66
p-67
-- For beginners: SSML
--For beginners: Speech Synthesis Markup Language is a markup language that tells a text-to-speech engine how to speak. It's like HTML but for audio. You wrap words in tags to control pronunciation, pitch, speed, pauses, and voice switching. The problem is that all those tags add characters. A sentence like "Arc fixed the bug" might become sixty characters of Speech Synthesis Markup Language when you add the voice switch, the pronunciation override for "Arc," and the emphasis on "fixed." A full journal entry with dozens of voice switches and hundreds of pronunciation overrides balloons fast.
p-68
p-69
-- Act 5: What Arc Keeps Getting Wrong
p-70
p-71
p-72
p-73
p-74
p-75
p-76
p-77
-- A Note From the Storyteller
p-78
p-79
p-80
p-81
p-82
p-83
p-84
p-85
-- Agent Performance
p-86
p-87
-- agent performance table
p-91
p-88
-- What We Learned
--For beginners: Tailwind CSS version } changed how custom variants work. If you're using "light colon" or any custom prefix and your styles aren't applying, check that at-custom-variant is actually registered in your CSS entry point. No error will tell you it's missing — the classes will simply not generate any CSS. Contrast ratios matter, a lot. If you're building anything with a light theme, test every text element against WCAG }.} AA minimums: }.} to } for normal text, } to } for large text. Tools like the Chrome DevTools accessibility inspector will show you the ratio for any element. Text-to-speech is harder than it looks. Technical jargon, voice switching, and markup overhead can push you past API character limits fast. Plan for chunking from the start. Git history rewriting with tools like git-filter-repo is the correct way to remove leaked sensitive data. But it's a destructive operation — involve the person who specializes in your version control before you run it.
--For the team: "It looks correct in the code" is not the same as "it works in the browser." The first is a hypothesis. The second is evidence. Ship evidence. Search Engine Optimization and Open Graph metadata belong in the first deploy, not the second. The first person to share your link on social media will see whatever you shipped. There's no second chance for a first impression. Accessibility audits should run before deploy, not after. Beacon found twenty-seven failures that were live on the public site before they were caught. Pre-deploy auditing is a pipeline step, not an afterthought. Mood presets for text-to-speech are useful but easy to over-engineer. Let the neural voice do the heavy lifting. Mark the transitions, don't micromanage the prosody. And when you scrub git history, consult your git specialist. That's what they're there for.
-- The Score
--Started the session: a leaked IP in public history, no blog, no audio pipeline, and a CTO who validates by reading code.
p-92
p-93
p-94
--Validate reality, not assumptions.